Documentation for Groovy compilation avoidance (#9550)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/groovy_plugin.adoc

| `groovy` configuration if non-empty; Groovy library found on `classpath` otherwise
|===

[[sec:groovy_compilation_avoidance]]
=== Compilation avoidance

> _Caveat: the Groovy compilation avoidance is an incubating feature since Gradle 5.6. There're known inaccuracies so please enable it at your own risk._

Reviewer: I would drop the `the` at the beginning.

To enable the incubating support for Groovy compilation avoidance, add an system property `org.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance` to your Gradle invocation, for example:

```
./gradlew assemble -Dorg.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance=true
```

If a dependent project has changed in an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface[ABI]-compatible way (only its private API has changed),

> then Groovy compilation tasks are supposed to be up-to-date. This means that if project `A` depends on project `B` and a class in `B` is changed in an ABI-compatible way (typically, changing only the body of a method), then Gradle won't recompile `A`.

Reviewer: `supposed` -> `will be`

Some of the types of changes that do not affect the public API and are ignored:

> * Changing a method body

Reviewer: We reference somewhere to `Java compilation avoidance`. I think here would be a good place instead of listing the same things again.

* Changing a comment
* Adding, removing or changing private methods, fields, or inner classes
* Adding, removing or changing a resource
* Changing the name of jars or directories in the classpath
* Renaming a parameter

However, similar to Java's annotation processing, there're various ways to https://melix.github.io/blog/2011/05/12/customizing_groovy_compilation_process.html[customize Groovy compilation process], in which implementation details matter.

> A well-known example is http://groovy-lang.org/metaprogramming.html#_code_generation_transformations[Groovy AST transformations]. In these cases, these dependencies must be declared separately in

Reviewer: `A well known example are`

Author: Asked for @tomdcc 's help. changed to `Some well-known examples are`

| `groovy` configuration if non-empty; Groovy library found on `classpath` otherwise
|===

[[sec:groovy_compilation_avoidance]]
=== Compilation avoidance

_Caveat: Groovy compilation avoidance is an incubating feature since Gradle 5.6. There are known inaccuracies so please enable it at your own risk._

> To enable the incubating support for Groovy compilation avoidance, add an system property `org.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance` to your Gradle invocation, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the incubating support for Groovy compilation avoidance, add a system property `org.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance` to your Gradle invocation, for example:
```

```
./gradlew assemble -Dorg.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance=true
```

Or, add the system property to your `gradle.properties` file:

```
# gradle.properties file
systemProp.org.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance=true
```

If a dependent project has changed in an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface[ABI]-compatible way (only its private API has changed), then Groovy compilation tasks will be up-to-date.
This means that if project `A` depends on project `B` and a class in `B` is changed in an ABI-compatible way (typically, changing only the body of a method), then Gradle won't recompile `A`.

> Some of the types of changes that do not affect the public API and are ignored, see <<java_plugin.adoc#sec:java_compile_avoidance,Java compile avoidance>> for a detailed list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See <<java_plugin.adoc#sec:java_compile_avoidance,Java compile avoidance>> for a detailed list of the types of changes that do not affect the ABI and are ignored. 
```

> However, similar to Java's annotation processing, there're various ways to https://melix.github.io/blog/2011/05/12/customizing_groovy_compilation_process.html[customize Groovy compilation process], in which implementation details matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, similar to Java's annotation processing, there are various ways to https://melix.github.io/blog/2011/05/12/customizing_groovy_compilation_process.html[customize the Groovy compilation process], for which implementation details matter.
```

[[sec:groovy_compilation_avoidance]]
=== Compilation avoidance

> _Caveat: Groovy compilation avoidance is an incubating feature since Gradle 5.6. There're known inaccuracies so please enable it at your own risk._

Reviewer: `There're` -> `There are`.

To enable the incubating support for Groovy compilation avoidance, add an system property `org.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance` to your Gradle invocation, for example:

```
./gradlew assemble -Dorg.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance=true
```

Or, add the system property to your `gradle.properties` file:

```
# gradle.properties file

> org.gradle.jvmargs=<original arguments> -Dorg.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance=true

Reviewer: Use `systemProp.org.gradle.groovy.compilation.avoidance=true` instead of changing `org.gradle.jvmargs`.
